---
title: "Projects"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o

---

#### Genetic diversity and effects of breeding selection in Vietnamese rice landraces

Rice is a versatile carbohydrate essential to diets worldwide. Vietnam harnesses a rich rice diversity due to its broad latitudinal range, diversity of ecosystems and regional preferences. To better understand this genetic resource, we assembled a dataset of 672 native rice varieties, primarily landraces. We observed a strong population structure in Vietnamese rice, captured in five Indica and four Japonica subpopulations that we also compared to the overall diversity of Asian cultivated rice. This diversity appears to be an untapped genetic reservoir of adaptive genes, particularly in an outlying group of indica landraces (indica-5). We also identified genomic regions and candidate genes harbouring non-synonymous substitutions, resulting from differential selective pressures between these native subpopulations. We later annotated them with QTLs previously identified by GWAS. We mainly focused on the outlying Indica-5 subpopulation to demonstrate genome scanning approaches to identify promising breeding targets.


#### Genomically complex collections of the tropical forage grass *Urochloa* (syn. *Brachiaria*)

We are studying diverging populations likely resulting from reproductive barriers related to apomixis and ploidy in the founder’s and wild relatives’ germplasm (bioRxiv, 2021, 453213), BNI phenotypic diversity in tropical forages (Fron. Plant Biol., 2020, 11:820), assembling and annotating the only reference genome for Brachiaria to date (J Exp Bot, 2020, 72:302), contrasting tolerance to acidic soils (J Exp Bot, 2020, 72:302), and allele mining in Brachiaria (Annals Bot, 2021, 128:627). 
