---
title: "home"
bg: white
color: black
style: center
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

# Exploring crop diversity and evolution to drive improvement

<span class="fa-stack subtlecircle" style="font-size:100px; background:rgba(255,166,0,0.1)">
  <i class="fa fa-circle fa-stack-2x text-white"></i>
  <i class="fa fa-bicycle fa-stack-1x text-orange"></i>
</span>

### My group investigates the effects of selection on the genome and population structure of crop species to identify candidate germplasm and haplotypes for traits under agricultural selection. We work with well-designed crop diversity panels assembled from gene banks using bioinformatic methods. Our goal is to incorporate adaptation and resistance into the genetic background of elite commercial varieties.

Plants are adapted to a broad range of environmental pressures. This natural diversity provides a reservoir of adaptive and resistance genes used in genetic research and crop improvement. Cultivated plants are also subjected to strong selective forces in agricultural settings, either unconscious selection or systematic breeding. Our interest is investigating the consequences of this selection on genetic diversity (high LD, perturbed allele frequency patterns, strong population differentiation, etc.) and the functional consequences of these changes (loss of function, in expression, copy-number variation, etc.). Agronomically valuable haplotypes are often unknown, and when known, they may be masked in complex epistatic interactions and consequently underperform when introgressed into the breeding background.

Our expertise is on bioinformatic methods for population structure analysis, whole-genome selection scanning, comparative genomics, association mapping, and transcriptomic gene expression analysis. We collaborate with gene banks, genetic researchers, and pre-breeding institutions from other UK institutes and overseas. We also collaborate with non-academic institutions as part of our impact delivery. 
